


sex may be a private act, but its effects are public

a culture of sexual permissiveness normalizes promiscuity, which damages society's ability to support monogamy
we should seek to avoid harmful outcomes
consensual deliberate obligations towards marital fidelity

use a non-controversial method to argue for a contoversial conclusion


how relevat is grasping the applied 


sex is special = goverened by rules rather different from general morals
committed, conscientious, diligent, chastity


A consequentialist argument against love
the ontology of love (concern for wellbeing) gives few answers to the questions ""

hetero-normative paradigm
ppl have a social duty to protecc marriage
quote "procreation and the raising of children are not a pruely private concern of parents but part of the common good of society" pg 112

we SHOULD do marriage because it leads to good social consequences

adultery violates the rules about marriage 
adultery violates the nature of marriage
adultery violates the virtues in marriage
adultery violates the stability of marriage, leading to social harm



abortion inflicts bodily harm against unwanted-children
neglect inflicts social harm against unwanted-children
"impermissible for human beings voluntarily to become parents of a child they cannot rear" becomes 'irresponsible and harmful' to produce unwanted-children. Therefore, restricting sex to marriage minimizes the bodily and social harm inflicted against unwanted-children.



natural law approach (quote pg 109, 111 on Natural Marriage, something about marriage's character is what generates moral obligations)



There's a risk of choosing unfair axioms, splitting the sides of the debate into a structure that implicitly excludes counter-arguments.
To avoid this, as much as possible I will attempt to use terminology inclusive-of these unique perspectives.
One such example is to assert "romantic love is inextricably social". A better prasing substitutes 'social' for 'relational'.
There are some exceptional cases of individuals 'marrying' inanimate objects (such as X marrying a rock), or themselves. Even these are RELATIONSHIPS. The first is a relationship with a litteral object. The second is a relationship between oneself as the SUBJECT (source) and onself as the OBJECT (recipient) of love.
But let's stick to typical cases.

I seek to avoid talking-past-eachother.




What is Raja Hawlani's approach to constructing an ontology of romantic love?
Conjunction of many necessairy attributes of 'romantic love' to form a sufficient definition. 
These attributes are accepted insofar as they make sense of example cases of 'love'.
For example, on his account, 'romantic love necessairly entails sex' is not a good attribute (quote) "because sexual desire and activity do not rigidly distinguish romantic love from friendship (many friends have sex with each other). The point, again, is that although most romantic loves include a sexual dimension, not all do, and these will not command immediate agreement that they are not romantic love."




adultery morally impermissible

how do our CONCEPTS relate to our emotions?



is a deliberate love inauthentic?
	consequentialist would look at the results:
		con: you consensually choose to decide what to feel
		pro: your resultant feelings minimize social harm
	These feelings are freely-chosen

when we're trying to define what love is, we should consider cases of 'deliberate love'

even IF love was an emotion, it should still be over-ridden








our ontology-of-romantic-love must explain cases of other-interested erotic desire



a consequentialist argument against adultery, that provides cases our ontology-of-romantic-love must explain


I will use a currently-popular moral system (Consequentialism) to argue for a 'traditional' moral conclusion (we should undermine adultery, by undermining adulterous love).
This is to make said conclusion more compelling to contemporary readers, who often reject said conclusion, due to a broad rejection of other moral systems (e.g. natural law, virtue ethics, divine command theory, or even Kantianism).


Sociological Fact 1: Children living with married parents are healthiest and perform best at school. There's even a difference between co-habitating parents vs. married parents. This difference cannot be due to 'stigma against bastard children', because such stigma is largely non-existant in contemporary western society, yet this performance gap persists. Therefore marriage itself benefits children.
Sociological Fact 2: Unwanted-children are at greater risk of social neglect, and greater risk of physical harm (abortion). These risks-of-harm are minimised by conceiving children in a social context where they will be wanted. The abortion rate is lowest within married couples, because marriage reduces the likelihood that a conceived child will be deemed 'unwanted'. Therefore marriage reduces the harm from 'unwantedness'. 
Sociological Fact 3: Marriage has positive causal effects on health (especially men) - married men live markedly happier, healthier, and longer lives.

Therefore, marriage clearly increases the wellbeing of children and adults, which increases the wellbeing of society as-a-whole. Therefore we should maximise the (healthy) intimacy and stability of all marriages i.e. do our best to support the union of married couples.

Marital infidelity (adultery) reliably leads to the breakdown of marriage, and the consequent loss of its social benefits.
Therefore if we believe we should support marriage, this entails a commitment to the deliberate undermining of adultery.
In Brief: adultery is harmful, so we should undermine it.


Therefore, we are obliged to love in these ways:

1. romance with one's own spouse
	despite/to spite one's temptations towards adultery
2. romance for the 'other' parties in the threatened marriage
	avoiding permitting oneself to tempt a married person into committing adultery, by seeking friendship with their spouse and family
	This way, desire for their collective wellbeing overwhelms one's personal temptations
3. romance with God [this aspect likely won't make the final-cut, but I want to at least mention it]
	Hosea depicts unfaithfulness to God as spiritual adultery.
	Those who are celibate, but living a relationaly-satisfied and joyful life, undermine adulterous desires (temptation towards false worship of any idol) thanks to intimate dependence-upon and affection-towards God. "I thirst (for you)."
our ontology of romantic love SHOULD successfully explain these cases



