Don't be ashamed to be unpopular, take a stand against injustice!
EHD.org
Email Rev Jane revjanemc1@yahoo.co.uk suggestions on: Google Maps, Website (Squarespace?), BnB (AirBnB?)


Online
Feedback: On Abort67's website, have an equivalent of a 'Media Pack', but a 'Pro-Life Group Starter Pack' with materials, best-practices, links to find their local abortion clinics, 'best practices'


Starting
Slogan: "Babies are Beautiful. Choose life!"
Slogan: "Slavery stopped once we saw what it did to people."
Slogan: Towards Women "Ignorance prevents "Choice". You CAN'T CONSENT until you are informed. #CoercedAbortionIsAbuse."
Slogan: "Knoweldge is empowering."
Slogan: Towards Men "Is reality (about abortion) too hardcore? They don't want you to see these pictures. Taboo adult content."
Slogan: "If you enjoy porn, that includes seeing things being stuck into vaginas. But have you seen just what can come OUT of a vagina? A tiny heart, baby hands, little toes."
Slogan: "Clump of Cells? That's the Placenta. Unborn Children have Knees & Toes."

Opening Question: "Are you vegetarian? How about vegan? Because of animal suffering? Do you/they believe it's violent and cruel to end an innocent life?"
Opening Question: "Are you against slavery? Cool, me too, why do you believe that?"
Opening Question: "I think this image is really gross, do you? If they're gross, then we shouldn't support it."
Feedback: At the start, acknowledge that it's a tough issue, it's controversial, it's painful, and really important. Be clear that you're very open to discussing oposing views, including privatley (in-person or online, give cards with contact info.)
Feedback: Put up the Syrian baby picture and ask people what is their reponse. Link it with BEFORE and AFTER quotes (with dates) of David Cameron's policy reversal.

Feedback: Use screenshots from EARLY stage embroys and ask people to guess how old the embryo is. Make own sources REALLY available, so people can look up the INDEPENDENT video itself.

Authority
Feedback: People trust the authority of science, so we should be in-their-face about our scientific academic SOURCES (clarifying that these aren't ideaological statements, presumably not all of these guys are Christian).
Feedback: Give context, what is the Population of the UK? What is the population of the current city? How many times more is the yearly-abortion-number than that popuation statistic?
Feedback: Our stats should reflect our abortion nuance between 'medical emergency' and 'viable pregnancy'
Feedback: This is a good moment to specify that we can be united together against abortion, despite religious differences. Leslie is an Atheist but still wants to be Pro-Life. Find some famous non-religious respectable person who spoke against abortion.
Feedback: Try to find more examples of dehumanization than Hitler+Jews, cuz that's almost a trope.
Feedback: Use an Auschwitz picture with a body-count of how many people were killed in Auschwitz, kidnapped by the slave trade, killed in the Atlantic Passage ... then compare that to abortion counts.


Sensitivity
Feedback: Find more scriptures about bringing things from the dark into the light, and compare abortion clinics to dark child prostitution houses, which are only tolerated because no one knows what goes-on behind closed doors.
Feedback: Instead of straight-up "A beautiful window of The Lord forming us in the womb." Introduce The Bible in a more slow way, such as 'for those who look to scripture for moral guidance'. If you want, you could have a 'Muslim option' or a 'Buddhist option' (or 'Atheist option').
"I have had an aborton." Our attitude needs to be compasion, care, tenderness, and healing.


Closing
Feedback: ALWAYS mention your social media and web links. Tag all your material with them.
FeedbacK: Mention a way that people can "support you financially" (donate money) conveniently and anonymously.


Stand Layout
Feedback: Use banner displays that are high-up so that bystanders can't block view of them. (Height escalation.)
Feedback: Split the sides, on one half cute life vidoes, on the other, gross death videos. "Choose Life."
Feedback: "Viewing Booth" of 'Marie Stopes Clinics Abortion Informercial (CBRUK Extended Edit)'.
Feedback: Be really nice, offer snacks or hot drinks in front of abortion clinics.



Good point: Jesus' Father chose to use graphic imagery (The Crucifixion).
It's better to open the can of worms than to leave it closed to fester.
It's WRONG to cover-up injustice for the sake of POLITENESS.
Learn campaign strategies from Animal Rights (+vegan) activists.
REALLY good tact: "MLK wasn't liked by w- liked by those in power."
Reponse to people trying to cover-up images: "What you are trying to defend is indefensible."
Shamefully, Christian churches are scared or ashamed to get involved with this issue.
The trouble with fighting racism is that it's subtle and passive, so you need to see a dramatic image exposing it to see it actually happen
These images are only upsetting because the REALITY of abortion IS upsetting!
When kids the nice baby video (National Geographic), they say "It's a baby!"
Don't be afraid to stand up for your beliefs, and exercise your liberty of freedom of speech and thought. In fact, news website opinion-pieces that are radical, contrarian, and dramatic are actually REALLY engaging. People enjoy spectating a good confrontation.











People will remember your tone and how you treat them, more than what you say.

These circumstances wouldn't be grounds to kill at 2yr old, so they don't apply for unborn.
backstreet abortion = adding protections to ppl hurting children (person beating, Susan Smith 1994 USA drive car into river)

Fertilized egg
	Is human
	Has complete DNA
	Is Alive (growing)
	Is a whole human being (will grow into a complete person, without any extra cells)

personhood is typically parsed like this
	dependency
	size
	level of development
	environment

rejection of argument "denial of personhood means we can kill it"


"Do you all know what a Polaroid camera is? I'll explain it anyway for the people who were too afraid to say.""


Everything about you and I is captured in the moment of fertilization, it just needs time to developp (like an undevelopped polaroid picture). It's already all in there.
Personhood doesn't get temporarily revoked while you pass out
Denying personhood to unborn is age-ism. If you give them more time, they WILL be people. Age-difference is not valid grounds for death.

It's attached to the mother's body, so it's part of her body? A leech attached to my body doesn't make me part leech.
If we KNOW that abortion kills unborn children, we have blood on our hands unless we tell other people. We're prioritizing children's lives over their feelings. Double-effect, we go to public places to engage adults.

My child saw this and was terrified :( but what about the children this is done to? :)
Be reverent, don't smile or be flippant in front of the images, because this is the first time most ppl have seen them, and its HEAVY.
It's prudent to assume that EVERYONE you talk to has had an abortion.

Abortion is legal, we're saying it's wrong, YOU need to defend the belief that it's right.

CBRUK's huge legal bill from their win against the Police has established a precedent that now intimidates Police into not messing with them.

Exposing conflict (inviting negative attention) is GOOD for media attention, to generate social scandal (eventually social change). The mere fact that the media shares our graphic images is a win. We also benefit from capturing evidence of disruption of our police-protected right to freedom of expression.
If they're nasty and screeching, they're exposing themselves. THEY are causing harassment, wrong, and disress.


You CAN initiate a conversation with people to recieve and impart information/ideas. But to avoid risks of harassment-accusations, let's NOT step into people's way, or walk following them.

"What do you think about abortion?" "Is this the first time you've seen images like this?"

Don't gang-up and invite-yourself into other people's conversations (it feels overwhelming).
The CBRUK keep on harping-on Segregation and Civil Rights activism, because the motivation is the same, we're knowingly putting ourselves in the line-of-fire to expose the wickedness.


Sometimes it's appropriate to cut-out time-wasters by ending the conversation, offering your hand, with "I think it's OK if we agree to disagree and leave that there." Your time is limited, so move-on to more fruit

These images have been verified in a court of law, as has our right to do this.
"If people think we care enough about them to take their questions seriously, they wil be more inclined to listen to what we have to say." Andy Stephenson, Director of Abort67