

"My mother made a decision that she thought affected only her, and yet every day I bear the result of that decision through my cerebral palsy"
"My job is not to change your mind [if you are pro-abortion]. My job is to present the truth and leave you to decide."


2018/03/09 Fiorella Nash (de Maria)
	Nasty chant: "Right to life, that's a lie, you don't care if women die."
	Ultrasound is baby's first picture.
	Forcing pregnant mothers to witness usltrasound before deaths
	If it is so distressing to face this harsh reality, then it's wrong, and should not be being pursued.
	"Empowerment"? No, more like patronizing to prevent the poor weak delicte females from recognizing the moral consequences of their choices.
	Ultrasound is first self-exertion of that new little life, the dignity of the unborn is self-evident.
	By 21 days the heart starts beating.

	Stongest and simplest moral argument: abortion ends a human life.


	Here are normal ways that right to bodily autonomy is already protected: police are not allowed to commit brutality, doctors must have patients' consent before administering treatment
	At what point is the pregnant woman responsible for the protection and care for her unborn child?
	"Utilitarianism - know your enemy" Fiorella

	J.S.Mill's indivitualistic Utilitarianism, ownership of individual
	Choice + ability to make choice should NOT be prized above all else!
	The (moral) CONTENT of the choice matters.
	Abortion emphasizes exercising choice OVER the moral consequence(s).

	"That the only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilized community, against his will, is to prevent harm to others.  ... The only part of the conduct of any one, for which he is amenable to society, is that which concerns others. In the part which merely concerns himself, his independence is, of right, absolute. Over himself, over his own body and mind, the individual is sovereign." J.S.Mill On Liberty http://www.econlib.org/library/Mill/mlLbty1.html

	Right to bodily integirty =/= can do whatever you want
	human rights are invaluable and unalienable, there are certain rights you can't sign away
	A boxing match (or BSDM) is one of the few places where you can sign away your right to protection
	We innately value life - aiding and abetting suicide is a serious offense.
	lol just imagine applying to suicide the argument: 'permit abortion to spare strain on society and poverty-stricken plebs'
	Suicide ALSO damages OTHER members of society.
	Human condition =/= absolute social isolation
	Abortion rights say baby is a colonizing parasite agressor
	It can't be a parasite, because that's defined as another species. A mother's own child, growing inside of her, is in eactly the right environment for it's proper care, is where it belongs. That's the precise biological function of the uterus.
	Parents DO have obligations to their unborn. It is not slavery, but it is a dependence relation.
	A child is not property, neither is the bother.

	An unborn baby CAN'T be morally culpable, so can't be a raper and violator and alien invader and AGRESSOR. Srs, the baby is more of a victim than you are!
	Abortion =/= self-defense/right to bear arms
	I hoped human saccrifice would have been done-away with by now! But not when its saccrifice for the glory of my own autonomy.
	"The unborn child would certainly be a lot safer if people actually WOULD stay out of the uterus." -Fiorella


	If conscience and personal libery are so important, then what about medical conscientious objectors?
	Abortion is NOT an enabling act of consideration and faith in mothers' choices.
	The abortion lobby litterally speaks of CONVERTING doctors, to make them turn away from their training to protect and preserve life, to turn them into killers.
	Killing is super intense, most people can't bear the emotional stress, leading to PTSD. It's HORROR.
	If the doctors who actually see the reality of abortion are getting regularly traumatized, that proves its damaging to them, and certainly not a 'routine medical procedure on just a clump of cells'. Its effect is strong, therefore it has strong moral content.
	Clearly this shows it is a person, a baby, 

	When abortion is prolific, few individuals are distant and unaffected.
	BAPS "we trust women" = Patronizing. Yeah ok cool, uuuh, you do know you're killing women, right?


	Let's not universally normativley whitewash all pregnancies as ONLY 'happy'
	Every pregnancy has it's ups and downs, excitment with uncertainty.
	Etymylogically, Crisis = danger+opportunity+decision time, so in some sense, every pregnancy is a crisis
	Pregnancy is hard! It's so isolating and can have such severe side-effects, many mothers can't bear it and abort, because it's so tough, lonely, and miserable.
	Intimate partner and domestic violence INCREASE during pregnancy. 12% of maternal deaths are due to domestic violence.
	Abortion gives violence the final victory.


	Fiorella has some great things to say about identity politics.
	Endless fake victimhood. It's strangley a white middle-class thing.
	(IMO) it complains about hiearchy, but then maintains the hiearchy and just flips "who is on top", rather than actually ending the hiearchy structure.
	"The status of women is bound up with the health of society more generally." -Fiorella
	(IMO) How will the constant warfare of dialectic make stability and peace?
	(IMO) When women confront other people (other women), its backhanded and not intense enough to get full expression, so they don't actually resolve their problems. (Higher activation-energy barrier, so they get agitated, but not enough to actually make the reaction complete.)
	Boys stop getting beauty vaue affirmations past the age of 3, so from then-on it's not normal for them to feel affirmation, so anytime they DO feel affirmation it feels embarassing and patronizing, or otherwise alien and uncomfortable.
	"You are my son and I love you. I am SO happy with you." -God, to Jerome


	don't be medically or culturally ignorant
		"You've never been pregnant, so I'm not going to take-seriously the advice you give on how to cope with pregnancy side-effects."
		la la la "you're not black so you can't talk", "you're not female so you can't talk"

		when you speak, you have to be careful to be culturally sensitive and tactful
		adapt language: a great sin = a great form of discrimination
		Sex selective abortion is WRONG no matter where it is. But China's comes from one-child and male preference, but India's comes from dowry,
		so if you're going to comment about a cultural practice, you need to understand what comes behind it




2018/03/10 ARCH Clare Bemner #CoercedAbortionIsAbuse

	How did we get here?
		How did I let that happen, will I ever get over it?
		Most women who have abortions never see a doctor, or at most just getting a referral.
		No one told me I would feel like this, if I'd know it was going to be like this I wouldn't have gone through with it
		Quality Commission in Kent, Marie Stokes International - "They can't take it all in, it's so fast". This implies that consent to abortions was not fully informed.
		You should NOT be feeling like a conveyor belt for a decision THIS heavy, you should be free to take as long as you want and get as much therapy as you need


	Circumstances
		Background
			you're much more at risk if you've had an absive, neglectful childhood
		Hormonal
			Biologically, especially in 1st trimester, a woman's hormones are WACK, she's quite at risk of not being able to make rational decisions. - Pregnancy, Gordon Bourne FRCS, 1996
			In biological crisis, in a place of threat, the parts of your brain that are reflective LITERALLY TURN OFF! YOU NEED TO TELL WOMEN THIS before they're about to decide to have an abortion.
		Law
		Normalizing
			Uk law has criteria, but it's not followed! If you want an abortion, you can just turn up, and the staff will normalize the circumstances so that they fit the criteria and can be signed-off-upon.


	Post Abortion
		AFTER abortion, many women: I could have left him, I would have coped, I should have been stronger, the children would have loved a baby brother/sister (have deprived them). Why didn't I stand up for my baby!?
		Grief, regret, fears, self-loathing, PTSD synmtoms. Never being forgiven by God, themselves, others, or the child.
		Do the abortion providers tell women that, this time tomorrow, its likely that you'll feel so sad and empty, that you'll just want to get pregnant again.
		Not even your universities with their safe spaces can't exclude children and pregnant mothers.

		In crisis pregnancies, women NEED to know that they're supported and not alone. How dare any women need to go get their scans WITHOUT the partner being there for them.
		Pregnancy is tough not because women are weak, but because it's really fuckin hardcore. You can't choose morning sickness.


	Poor informed-consent procedures are UNIVERSAL.
		Angry dads can lie, saying the baby will be taken away. This is UNTRUE legal counsel, but NO ONE has told her what the REALITY is.
		If you go to your DENTIST and you haven't slept for 5 days, they can tell. If you ask to not have anasthetic, they aren't respecting you by acquiesing. They would be facilitating your abuse.
		But if it's a doctor? No contesting, not dare to ask if there's any mitigating circumstances, because too taboo to actually check its a CONSENSUAL choice.
		People despair after taking the 1st pill, thinking the baby is already dead. YOU STILL HAVE A CHOICE! Go and ask, 30-40% chance that it's still alive.
		The clinic is LYING (by omission) when they fail to tell women what are the typical circumstances, typical causes for women feeling so bad, what the options are.
		"I couldn't afford a baby." Well have you actually looked at child benefit, tax credit, maternity leave RIGHTS ... ? "No."
		I'm not ready, we can't afford it, the baby will never leave. People telling pregnant mothers that they can't handle caring for themself thus can't bear baby, or that they are being selfish and not acquiesing to the needs of their surroundings. I wanted to keep the baby, but HE didn't.

		it's a crime that 'Pregnancy "CARE" providers' railroad women into abortion, rather than actually pursuing their informed consent
		30-60% of women have Ambivalence "I don't know if I can go through with this". Ambivalence is a strong indicator of post-abortion regret, so it's a red flag! If medical providers notice Ambivalence, they should STOP and check for consent, rather than railroading the woman to go through with the execution.


		If women are being desperate and suicidal, think of the impact that has on the rest of the community?
		Even if women get therapy, they still have effects for the rest of their lives.

		Brain can't process rationally if you're so crisis and stressed, so it helps, just to get them to relax.


		Coercion
			We'd never say "Degree gone, career ruined, your man will leave" to women pushing a pram, so we shouldn't do it to pregnant women
			Even asking "What are you going to do about it?" is not value-neutral, it implies pregnancy is a (problematic) situation that needs to be dealt with, instead of "That's lovley, how are you feeling?"
			Many women's upbringing means they are socially unable to stand up for themselves. "I didn't want inconvenience everyone else who was alreaady there. So I felt I couldn't change my mind."
			If a woman says her partner is pressuring her for an abortion, and the only reason she consents is 'money' ... there's socialcare resources available for that!
			"Are you sure, you can say no right now, you can always turn back."
			pills at home dehumanize and isolate. Then 

	What you can do: speak up any time anyone facilitates coerced abortion.
		"Even MEN change."
		CompassionateMind.org   helps with self-loathing





	Why is it no longer called "British Victims of Abortion".
	Sample bias? Cuz she only talks to ppl who have sought-out help, who feel convicted. How indicative of ALL abortions, is this 'regret' experience?
	Patronizing? Women are so hormonal that they aren't able to make rational decisions about abortion.
		The risk when issues like this are SO politicized is that we're not allowed to talk about them.
		Agenda is "woman are equally rational as men", because rationality is equated with dignity/value.
		Therefore you're never allowed to question their rationality, even if you have strong scientific epistemic warrant.
		pregnancy is SO hormonal, it's super disorienting, and makes ppl feel desperate to somehow fel better and less overwhelmed


	 

	CARE comission's report on BPAS's mispractice.
		If someone has all that pressure, we need informed conent procedures that are actually fit for purpose.
		"If it hadn't of been legal, I wouldn't have done it, and he wouldn't have pressured me."
		BPAS makes a killing doing propaganda about how Ireland are lining up on ships to go get abortions. Actually, the number of Irish travel-abortions has HALVED in the past decade! Demand is DECREASING!
		Lady thinks her statements refer to between 30-50% of women, particularly because it can take 10 of no symptoms AND THEN hit ... lifelong effects. My mom hadn't forgotten her miscarriage even 20 years on. Pregnancy is so special! It's a big deal!
		The FIRST question that doctors ask is "do you want to keep it?" is MURDEROUS
		It's awful that in Glasgow, the GP reffers women who want baby help ... to the abortionist!


2018/03/10 Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide Law		Prof. David Paton Daid.Paton@nottingham.ac.uk Nottingham University Business School
	Primairy methods of Pro-Life work: Education, Help, Law
	When something is illegal, that produces an opportunity cost (need to go through illegal means, or has a social stigma)

	Laws are measures that help protect vulnerable people
	We need to protect the most vulnerable (not so much the powerful), such as the unborn, and the elderly.

	Law
		The US is a great experimental testing-grounds for new laws.
		For example, in the UK it is legal for minors (sub 16s) to get abortions WITHOUT parents even knowing, let alone consenting. Errrrr but what about health and safety of ANY OTHER activity involving minors...
		Chile 1989, Poland, Nicaragua have BANNED abortion.
		Levine (2003) parental consent requirement laws decreased teen abortion by 15-20% WITHOUT an increase in teen births = defeats arguments of "if u ban, they'll do it anyway"
		The existence of narrow, specific, assisted suicide laws, endorse and normalize the broader types of suicide

		7.9  abortions per 1000 in England + Wales (2016). So for St Andrews that's 32/year, of our fellow uni students.
		Argument: abrotion laws are necessairy to protect maternal health. Actually, Poland (where abortion is illegal) has far lower rate of maternal death than UK (where abortion is mostly legal)

	Euthanasia laws enable euthanasia
		Lack of safeguards
		Slippery-slope is rhetorically dismissed, but it is consistently the case - in Belgium, 18yr old euthanasia slid down to younger kids. Weather or not its strictly illegal is a moot point, it gets broadened.
		Doctors shouldn't be involved in killing. Doctors are there to CURE and CARE. (doctors who concientiously object STILL need to arrange some other docter to commit euthanasia, which doesn't really stop the problem)
		Euthanasia is fundamental abuse of human rights. It's FATAL dicrimination against the vulnerable, especially the elderly and disabled.
			Discriminatory because 1 group (disabled and elderly) are allowed to ask for death. But healthy, ballanced, well-off people are NOT allowed to commit suicide. We say they've lost their mind, we insist on trying to PREVENT their suicide.
		Doctors should NOT be proposing abortions or euthanasia, particularly when the patient has never raised the issue. This is an abuse of social authority power.
		Whenever someone is in a vulnerable situation, how you feel isn't only about the situation, it has to do with the care, love, and social treatment you get.


	Pro-life
		There is strong evidence that pro-life laws DO reduce the killing of innocent people.
		Remain on the side of the truth, don't misrepresent actuality and data, the truth ill set you free.

	Posner's argument, spoke too fast with too many branches, I didn't follow. Please use a timeline showing left-and-right



Do an internship with David Jones and the Anscombe institute. Math + ethics!
	Economics statistics: Fixed effects pannel regression with controls.
	

2018/03/10 Ireland
	When the law was voted-in, physical health risks were accepted, but mental health dimension (suicide) was not.
	The suicidality (threat to life) of the raped Irish girl from 1982, was deemed as legal grounds for Irish abortions
	There is no scientific evidence upon which to base "abortion reduces suicides"
	(IMO) easy availability of abortion for rape and incest FACILITATE those crimes, because it reduces consequences, instead of them needing to pay child support for the rest of their lives

	012 Savita Hapinanar dentist who was pregnant and died. Abortionists said this was because aboirtion wasn't legal. Bullshit, she had a medical misdiagnosis (didn't spot the sepsis) and THAT's what killed her.

	Does Abortion HELP or HARM women's mental health?
		The argument was: abortion is ok to help fix suicidality
		But textbooks say that abortion has NO psychiatric effects.
		There's one paper that claims "If you refuse abortion, it causes psychological harm.", but it sucks and its results don't generalize.

	Mental health problems are caused by abortion
	Mental health problems are due to "unwanted" pregnancy
	Mental health problems are due to 3rd background issues (partner violence, previous mental health problems, poor support)

	Risk factors of people more likely to be harmed by abortion
		young, isolated, maternal instincts, history of depression

	Most common ways Young People are sick substance abuse, anxiety, suicidal behaviour (and somewhat Depression)


2018/03/10 Roger Kiska "Rights of Conscience in European and International Law: Why Biritsh Medical Staff Should be Protected"
	Sweden has serious under-staffing of midwives, because they don't want to be doing abortions.
	"Called upon to perform abortion" not perform AN abortion
	"I don't know if it was St. Augustine or C.S.Lewis but ..."
	Instances of conflict of conscience: nurses giving gender reassignmnet hormones, assisted suicide, pharmacists giving drugs

	Wrong argument 1: Those entering the medical profession are under obligation to perform 'tehcnically legal' procedures, either you perform it or you're out.
		but actually you have a legal right to health, thought, conscience, and religion
		conflicting rights of abortion=permitted but also objection=permitted
		when you get the doctor job, that doesn't consist of you signing-away your own legal rights

		European court ruled
			conscientious objection wan't motivated by personal benefit, but by personal philosophical (religious) belief
			refusal to allow conscientious objection fails to strike a balance between the needs of the individual and the needs of society as a whole
			democracy does NOT mean that the views of the minority will be subjected to the views of the majority
			rather than oppressing people, the provision of rights of conscience actually promote a stable form of pluralism and tolerance

		Conscience clauses are all over the place in many parts of the medical profession
			very strong EU court rights-of-conscience, which was clearly violated for those 2012 nurses
			http://assembly.coe.int/nw/xml/XRef/Xref-XML2HTML-en.asp?fileid=17909&lang=en


	Wrong argument 2: They can't deny a patient's access to their legal right to care
		Just because the procedure is legal (or even a constitutional right), doesn't mean everyone has an absolute right to have access to that procedure.
		Gun limits in the USA STILL EXIST (a bit)
		(IMO) Being a pro-abortion/pro-euthanasia doctor counts as a vote of no confidence in a bloodthirsty 'care' provider.

	We need to grasp back Natural Law view, because its replacement (Positivism) endorses whatever that state's laws dictate, so isn't able to say a law is WRONG.
	So really all of you, become lawyers, become good lawyers, and let's change those bad laws.
	Peter Singer is a help cuz he shows how crazy their argumants are.



2018/03/10 Mental Health and Relationship Harm from Abortion
	Coercion goes from threat to life, down to feeling that others would rather not that you carried-on the pregnancy.
	Mental illness often interefers with adaptive decision-making, meaning you really need sensitive pre-abortion counseling.

 	Risk Factors
 		1. Commitment and attachment to the pregnancy.
 		2. Perceived coercion to have the abortion.
 		3. Significant ambivalence about the abortion decision.
 		4. Putting great effort into keeping the abortion a serect for fear of stigma.
 		5. Advanced stage of pregnancy.
 		6. Pre-existing experience of trauma.
 		7. Past or present sexual, physical, or emotional abuse.
 		8. Unresolved past loses and perception of abortion as a loss.
 		9. Fetal abnormality or other medical indications for the abortion.
 		10. Intense guilt and shame before the abortion.
 		11. An existing emotional disorder or mental illness prior to the abortion.
 		12. Apprasial of abortion as extremely stressful before it occurs.
 		13. Execting depression, severe grief or guilt, and regret after the abortion.
 		14. Belief that abortion is the same act as killing a newborn infant.
	There are lots of well-established risk-factors with abortion. risk factors indicate you're more likely to have a problem after having an abortion. Like believing it's a child etc.
	However, abortion clinics hardly EVER screen for these risks before proceeding with abortion
	Biggs et al. (2017) 
		Some Science is comprimised and ends up risking women's health, and used to make shit laws. The only reason why it gets published is because it is ideaologically approved-of.
		People who drop out of surveys are the ones most likely to have had mental health issues. This study had a 78% drop out rate. But it argued that the mental health effects were negligible.

	At least 20-30% women who abort suffer prolonged negative psychological effects.
	Up to 10% of women's mental health issues are attributable to abortion.
	abortions are SHARED procedures between mother and father

	Man and women sharing grieving can grieve at different rates, intensities, and timings.
	Men tend to exert greater control over the expression of painful emotions, intellectualize grief, cope alone, and identify their primary role as supporter for their partners.

	Abortion is such a major decision, that will have a lifelong impact, and can lead to suicide ... it should NOT be made as a snap decision. All options must be fully-explored and publicized.



Hey! An English monk from the French monastery I lived in is coming this Tuesday to lead a singing service. We have one every Wednesday, but this one will be really special, so it'll be a great chance to try out our Taizé gatherings! :)




